Experience

1. Automotive Engineer
Tony's Automotive Engineering Firm, Albuquerque, NM
In this role, I was responsible for inspecting vehicles for possible issues and areas for improvement. I developed and implemented a computer model to measure vehicle function. I worked on all areas of the vehicles, but I specialized in control systems. Independently, I performed research on the latest control system models and procedures. Because of my diligent work, Tony's Automotive Engineering Firm passed our safety inspection with the highest rating and nearly doubled our sales in the year after I developed my computer model.

2.Software Engineer
Systems Incorporated, Muncie IN
In this role, I was responsible for developing, modeling and testing software for sales companies. I consistently maintained systems in compliance with industry standards to ensure the latest security features. I created and managed project plans, alone and with a team of peers. Due to my organization practices, Systems Incorporated met software development deadlines 12% faster while I worked there. I also developed a new training for incoming employees and served as a mentor while they finishing the training program.

3.Water Treatment Engineer
Sunny Town Water and Power Facility, Des Moines, IA
In this role, I am responsible for designing plans to improve the water quality in my county. This entails testing current water levels, reviewing historical records and developing a new treatment plan to meet current needs. I collaborate with local leadership, government agencies and private contractors to make sure my plans are implemented carefully and accurately. I also track our budget to make sure we're adequately using funds. Due to our collective efforts, the water quality in our community currently has the cleanest test results we've ever held.
Additional Skills

1. Mathematical ability

Maths is the language of engineering. From algebra to calculus, mathematics helps engineers’ model and analyse the problems they aim to solve. Start with online maths puzzles and challenges to sharpen your skills.

2. Scientific acumen

A good engineer is also a skilled scientist. Understanding the principles of physics is crucial. Participate in science fairs and join a science club to get hands-on experience.

3. Logical thinking

Engineers rely on logical reasoning to navigate complex problems and make decisions based on quantitative analysis, breaking down problems into smaller, more manageable components, and evaluating the relationships between these components to find potential solutions.

By applying logic and reasoning, engineers can develop strategies, design systems, and troubleshoot issues in a systematic and efficient manner.

4. Creative problem-solving

Engineering is about finding innovative solutions to complex issues. Practice thinking outside the box by tackling daily problems creatively.

5. Technical skills for engineers

In today's digital world, being tech-savvy is a must. You could learn coding basics through online platforms like Codecademy or Scratch - many have free options and resources - you could also familiarise yourself with CAD software and 3D printing, which can help bring your designs to life.
6. Analytical skills

Analytical skills are the cornerstone of innovation and problem-solving. Engineers need to identify and articulate problems clearly, analyse data to extract actionable insights, and apply critical thinking to evaluate different solutions.

7. Project management and teamwork

Engineering projects require teamwork and effective communication as well as those all-important soft skills. Take part in group projects, join a club, or lead a team in class or school competitions to develop these essential skills.

8. Communication skills

Being able to discuss ideas, explain technical jargon clearly and get your point across is important. It's all about working well with your team, making sure your ideas are understood and keeping everyone updated on your projects.

Plus, when you're leading a project or figuring out how to make things safer and more awesome, knowing how to communicate can really make a difference.

9. Attention to detail

Precision is key in engineering. You could start by building models or assembling computer parts. This not only teaches you the importance of accuracy but also the patience needed for engineering tasks and having a keen eye for detail.

10. Adaptability and continuous learning

Engineering is a constantly evolving field. If you want to study engineering and are preparing for a degree you should cultivate a love for learning by staying updated on the latest technological advancements and being open to new ideas and innovations.