PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Resume Worded, New York, NY
2020-Present
Software Engineer • Created an invoicing system for subscription services that managed monthly invoices and
printed invoices to be sent to customers; increased conversion rate by 15%. • Collaborated with internal teams, including graphic design and QA testers to develop and
launch a new application in just 6 months, ahead of schedule by 6 months. • Wrote reusable unit test documents to ensure quality control and detect bugs by increasing
over 35% efficiency rate.
Growthsi, San Diego, CA
2016 - 2020
Software Engineer • Analyzed information to determine, recommend and plan redesign of a new API; presented
outputs to CTO.. • Analyzed user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design, ensuring
project completion 3 weeks prior to targeted due date.
• Released and updated 15+ custom .net applications for company clients in health niches. • Wrote Python and JavaScript libraries to display real time pricing via SkyScanner's flights
pricing API, leading to increased customer satisfaction.
• Tip to jobseeker: Bullet points should be in format [Action Verb] [Accomplishment] [Metric];
e.g. Developed × that led to v% improvement
Rofocus, New York, NY
2012 - 2016
Front-end Developer
• Implemented a new responsive website approach increasing mobile traffic by 22%. • Partnered with back-end developers and created dynamic web pages using Javascript,
resulting in website leads increase by 15%. • Collaborated on APIs and managed software workflow using Scrum methodology,
increasing task success rate by 25%. • Tip to jobseeker: Bullet points should be in format [Action Verb [Accomplishment] [Metric:
e.g. Developed × that led to % improvement
EDUCATION
Resume Worded University, San Francisco, CA
2012
Bachelor of Electrical Engineering
• Awards: Resume Worded Teaching Fellow (only 5 awarded to class), Dean's List 2012 (Top 10%)
• Completed one-year study abroad with Singapore University
SKILLS & OTHER Skills: CSS, Javascript, Python, Advanced SAP, HTML and XML, Scrum Methodology, Database
management software, Software Development Life Cycle Volunteering: Volunteered as Junior Developer in iOS hotel booking application launch proiect for 3-
months (2020).